# DAEN690-FAA-UAS

Unmanned Aircraft Systems (UAS) use has become prevalent across the United States in recent years, and misuse by owners could lead to significant dangers to aircraft, especially when in violation of national airspace. The Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) receives UAS sightings that may pose a risk to aircraft, particularly during takeoff and landing near airports, that is recorded within a semi-structured database without any geospatial tagging, called SkyWatch. The FAA desires to visualize and classify these incidents spatially, as they currently do not have a meaningful understanding of where and how these UAS are being operated to conduct effective countermeasures where possible. Currently, these records are not collated in a coherent database, making location analysis difficult. As a result, in order to acquire these exact locations of these unmanned aircraft, the FAA required processing of the data collected from SkyWatch. Extraction of UAS locations from this database leveraged natural language processing techniques, including regular expressions and string manipulation, from multiple fields. While several incident reports followed a standard template formatting, a significant portion deviated into multiple other formats, requiring various regular expressions to capture the breadth of inputs. Once the necessary information was extracted, this data was then cross-referenced against differing Origin Reference Points (e.g., airports, runways, navigational aids, designated points) and coupled with a distance and bearing to calculate the UAS location for each sighting. These observations were then exported for spatial visualization, allowing the FAA to identify trends and realize potential operation locations for Unmanned Aircraft Systems. Realizing these potential risks will allow for more efficient mitigation actions, as well as policy and regulatory guidance development to improve the overall safety of the national airspace. 
 
# LIST OF OBJECTS IN THIS REPOSITORY

1) **Incidents-Exploratory.rmd** -- An R Markdown file that gives an initial scrub of the data, which includes splitting up the large CEDAR Remarks field into multiple fields, removing codes that were not relevant to this project, and subsetting the data into Standard and Non-standard Format datasets.
2) **Non-Standard_Algorithm.rmd** (Needs to be renamed) -- An R Markdown file where records that were not immediately parsed properly to latitude/longitude could be analyzed further to determine if they had data in an alternative proper format, or should be left into an exceptions file.
3) **Standard_Format Folder** -- This folder contains the Jupyter Notebooks that were used to parse through those records for which the Remarks was deemed to be of the Standard Format. This folder contains its own README.md file that further explains these Notebooks and their contents. It should be noted that each Jupyter Notebook in this folder is adequately commented and contains information regarding the script at the beginning of each file. 
4) **Non-Standard-Format Folder** -- This folder contains the Jupyter Notebooks that were used to parse through those records for which the Remarks was NOT deemed to be of the Standard Format. This folder contains its own README.md file that further explains these Notebooks and their contents. It should be noted that each Jupyter Notebook in this folder is adequately commented and contains information regarding the script at the beginning of each file. 
